>> Mike North: So
this is what we're trying to do now.
If you notice in our
example app we've got,
we've got quite a few
seeds coming through here.
And this is because we're
actually reading that file and
passing some of the most
basic possible data through.
And now we can start to.
But you know, you see there's like
net wait, I have no idea, maybe that's
a string we can search for and put
something meaningful there in the future.
And we're going to try to fill in some of
this information that's on the back here.
Days to harvest is an interesting one.
That's another time related
thing that came up.
I don't know, let's say for the purpose
of this, that's our starting point.
We're going to build that version of the
software, we'll show it to our user and
let's see what they think about that.
Great.
So we're going to build this and
we're going to have to touch
a couple different places.
Well, first off there's
a seed packets service.
Remember these are our domain services.
You're going to find that this
thing has some methods and
it mostly deals with just seed packet,
all of the request response stuff
above this part of our server.
And while we may end up making sure
data threads through properly,
we're not going to be hopefully
spending too much time there.
So we need to touch a couple methods
in there, parse seed packet so
that as we read this data file
we can grab pieces of data that
are interesting that are not quite
represented on this model yet.
And we also may want to take
a look at get all seed packets,
although I think things should
just sort of pass through.
But this is the list where when
we're like our UI is requesting all
the seed packets to
generate those components.
This is what it's hitting.
In our types package we have request and
response shapes and
this is the API route that handles
the actual incoming requests and
then delegates the fetching of the list
of seed packets to that domain service.
Again, a nice separation between
request response responsibilities and
the core thing that is dealing
with the seed packet domain.
We also have a couple UI components
which we'll come back to this.
Let's start with the back-end and
trickle it up.
But there are two UI components
where we can thread through some of
the data once we incorporate
it into the model and
see that it's coming through
in the HTTP response.
So let's begin, and
don't overlook this point.
So we have a generic packet concept
that the UI understands, but
it has a metadata object that lets
us add additional information.
And this is a good example of like,
the API contract looks very different
potentially than the way we're
going to articulate our data model.
We may have a rich seed packet
class in our backend, but
our UI looks at things
a little bit differently.
So we're going to show how we can
adapt between those two contracts
without letting any of that request
response stuff bleed into our
server side data model, which is the,
you know, it's the thing
that should be like the most clear
representation of this concept.
Great.
So where we're going to start is loading.
Sorry, we're going to
start with the model.
Let's begin diving into the implementation
by extending the seed packet model.
And here's where we're going
to look in our types package.
Remember, this is where we have our
value objects and our entities and
the resources which
are the request response shapes.
Let's look at entities and
seed packet metadata.
I want to show you how
this is threaded through.
We've got a generic packet type which
just has a name, a description,
a category, and then this thing called
a presentation, which if we look at it,
it's like a path to an icon and
an accent color of some sort.
If we look at our UI like the accent
color is sort of the background
behind the icon and
it varies from plant to plant.
This is a GPT estimated color
that represents the plant.
And so we have accent colors there.
But there's not much here.
It's just purely.
This could be like a packet of snacks or
something.
Like, there's nothing
plant ish about this yet.
But we have a function here which takes
in a metadata schema as an argument and
it creates a new type with
that metadata schema on it.
So if we look at the seed packet type,
you can see we're doing exactly that.
We're creating a packet type and
we have this metadata schema that's
being sort of tacked onto it.
This is our seed packet.
And so all that's left for
us to do is to enrich this.
So we already have a quantity here and we
can start to add on, add on other things.
So we want just to refresh my memory here.
Days to harvest.
We want days to harvest.
And that's usually by the way,
the time from planting the seed to when
you expect to get something to eat.
Well, the best time to
get something to eat,
I guess you can eat small plants,
but usually not worth the work.
So great.
In this case, we're already saying days.
We could make it time to harvest, but
we just want days to harvest here or
even int.
>> Male: Because that would be an integer.
>> Mike North: Great.
Anything else has to be greater than zero.
Great.
I'm not even going to say less than 365.
You can grow a fig tree and
it takes 10 years before you're going to
actually get figs for the first time.
But negative time is not a thing.
If you find a seed that you can
harvest in negative time, let me know.
That seems like solving world
hunger kind of discovery.
Now this is squirrely.
Like, I don't know,
do an empty seed packet,
does that belong in our collection?
We'll leave that problem for another day.
But like you could say one
is the minimum here so
that you actually hit a validation error.
And potentially you could use
that to drive business logic and
say we're removing the seed packet
from the collection as soon as you
mutate this entity and
say, okay, quantity zero.
Now it's like, well,
something else has to happen.
We're actually removing the record.
Let's look back at the back
of our packet here.
Let's pick one of these instructions.
How about the SO instructions?
Because I do recall on the back
of our seed packet, we had seed dec.
Depth an eighth of an inch,
plant spacing 24 inches apart.
That seems pretty important.
So those are planting instructions,
you could think of them that way.
Also we might find some
date something here.
So let's see if we can fish in our
raw data model that represents that
YAML file and
dig up something interesting there.
I do want to add one more thing.
I want to add planting distance.
And I'm doing this because
I know where we're going.
I know we're going to aim for
this like gardening thing
gardening app where you
can drag plants onto grid.
And I know that we're going to want to
know what the size of those plants are so
that we can sort of plan for, for that.
And we're going to want to have
planting distance as part of that.
Especially if as we were talking about,
like a plant probably derives from a seed.
You want to have information on this
that is very useful in terms of
modeling a plant.
Just checking packet real carefully,
make sure we don't duplicate our work.
So we have a category,
let's call that like we had a plant
family in our drawing here.
So we've already got quantity.
Let's say like category
kind of meets this need.
At least for the API contract we'll
get that expiration date and name.
Name is already on packet
as well as category.
So like this and
this kind of get what we want and
then expires at, we can add that here.
And because this is an API contract,
I'm going to make this
a string because we can't send date
objects over the wire as it is.
Great, so that's done.
Now let's turn our eye
towards the server and
that is where we're going to
build the real entity here.
So we're going to go into
server source entities and
we already have a seed packet here.
And there's already kind of
a starting point of some sort.
We have a basic representation of a plant.
Many plants come from
a single seed packet.
So this is just part of our
starting point modeling.
Not all of this needs to
be exposed through our API.
This can be a richer model.
We've already got a name,
a description, a quantity here.
Now remember, this is going
to be like metadata quantity.
When we're dealing with
that serialized shape that,
that we pass back to the UI category,
that's going to be on
the top level because it's
part of category here, right?
It's got the presentation and
this is like, take it from me,
this is a one to one mapping.
It's the icon, it's the accent color and
then planting distance.
So it's fine to represent
all of this that way.
We need one more thing,
an expiration date.
I think we can always come
back here if we need more and
we'll just make this like
a standardized timestamp.
Easiest, easiest way to
go about doing this.
In fact, we don't even need this.
It will infer based on string that
it should make it a text field.
I think we should be good here.
But let's see, SQLiteConstraint.
That might have been at
the top of my buffer there.
Nope, it's at the bottom.
So what's going on here?
Insert into.
And then it's got the SQL insert
statement with these parameters and
says not null constraint.
Failed, seed packets expires at.
So somewhere we're trying to create
a seed packet, but we've just added
this expiresAt field and it appears that
by default this is not a nullable field.
Now, we could make it one and
the error should go away, but
I kind of want every seed packet
to have an expiration date.
So let's not make it nullable and
let's fix this error by having that
field get populated with data
as we loaded from a file.
We'll leave this at smallest level so
we can kind of see it when it gets fixed.
So where we're gonna go next is
the seed service, seed packet service.
At a high level,
two things are happening here.
We've got a function called
parse seedpacket and
it takes in a repository.
Remember, that's the same concept
we were dealing with before, but
apparently I am provided a repository
when this function is called.
And then it's got this thing
called raw seed packet info.
And this is the monster type with
everything that's in that YAML file.
This is a very, very,
very detailed seed packet type.
And the point, we'll sort of fish around,
cuz we have nice little type-ahead
in TypeScript for the data we need.
Or we'll look at the YAML file to
figure out where to go and fish for it.
But what we have to return
is the seed packet entity.
So this function represents getting
one seed as raw information
from that YAML file and then returning
a persistent record, it looks like.
So this is creation of the packet.
Interesting.
I bet that the persistence happens
outside of this because the packets
are ending up in the database.
This must be how it works.
So we've got repo create and
then a bunch of the existing things, and
we need an expires at.
Let's look at our YAML file, see if we can
spot a good place for an expiration date.
Actually, we're riffing a little bit here,
so
I'm not sure that we're going to find one.
We can always just fake it.
Spread mature size
viability in years.
Let's use that.
Let's say I bought an enormous number
of seeds in February of 2024 and
we'll use seed packet
info viability in years.
We'll do new
date and then
let's see.
It's possibly undef.
>> Mike North: Comma, great.
Sorry, just needed that
formatting to work out.
So we've got a date,
we're passing in year,
a month index, and then a day, right?
And we're gonna forget about the time.
In fact, you could probably
forget about the day too.
Now we're dealing with this.
So unexpected constant
nullishness on the left hand
side of a double question mark operator.
>> Male: I think you need to enclose
the coalescing operator and yeah.
>> Female: I'm not sure
that question marks too.
>> Mike North: I see.
Great.
So we've got 2024 plus
the viability in years.
And let's scroll to the bottom and
look, no more SQLite constraint there.
So we're already getting the category,
the quantity, let's just double-check.
PlantingDistance, is
that already calculated?
Yep, it is.
So really we had to add expiresAt.
Now let's look at what's
going over the wire and
see if that data looks like what we need.
So just open up good old dev tools network
tab search for the packets request.
So here's your response and
I'm just scanning through.
We've got category, Big Boy Tomato,
presentation, metadata, all right?
There's our quantity and
our planting distance.
So those are already wired up somehow.
We're gonna have to look at that.
But I don't see any sort of
expires at coming through.
And this is where I would want to see it.
Remember, like metadata is the place for
any plant specific things
to be trickling through.
To do this, we're going to have to
get out of our domain service and
get into the route handler
because that is where
we convert between our
internal representation and
the ultimate HTTP response
that we're returning,
which looks like this
here we're going to have
to say expires at is
packet expires that and
if we hit save packets there it is
a timestamp that comes through.
Now we can go and thread it through to our
seed packet component, like in the back.
So we're gonna close
a bunch of these files.
Seed packet back is what
this is called because we're
sharing types like that types package.
All this information is kind
of trickling through and
although it's not shown in the tooltip
here because it gets truncated.
Wait, I expected that to
kind of come through.
What is this type?
You know, I want to bump the TypeScript
server just to the language server just to
make sure we're getting the latest
types after that change.
That's interesting.
We got rebuild the types package,
okay, no worries.
So I'm going to just put this
server in the background.
It'll NPM run build so that we get
the right types in the dist folder, and
then we're going to bring that
server back into the foreground.
And I think we should
get something more here.
No, this is
in the entities dist.
All right, let's try one more thing.
>> Mike North: We're gonna blow
away this disk folder just for
good measure,
>> Mike North: Build
this package directly,
see if there are any errors.
All right,
what is in your dist folder types?
Entities, seed packet and
seed packet metadata.
There we go.
Quantity, plane, distance,
days to harvest.
All right, let's make sure that all
percolated through the way it should.
Maybe things are still warming up.
Like maybe it's svelte.
So for people following along live,
I figured out what the problem was.
It had to do with our the audible.
We called to try to fix
the import paths earlier.
What was going on here
is we in our tsconfig
had changed or had set rootdir to dot.
We'd said the root directory
of this project is
effectively the root
folder of this package.
Then we ran a build.
What happens when we do that is you're
going to see in this folder here,
if we, I think refresh.
Did I save that?
I didn't save it.
We're going to see a source
folder pop up here.
So what happened was we had two
versions of the build output for
this package, one in the root
level of the dist folder, and
that one had only quantity
in that metadata object.
That's why we were seeing just
that one option in the type ahead.
Meanwhile, we had the real changes we
just made inside the source folder.
So if you just set this to source,
save and then remove dist and
build again, you should end up
with a nice dist folder that just
has everything in the root here and
we should be back in action.